1 of 2 Juan Jose Carin
Data Scientist
Mountain View , CA 94041
650-336-4590 | juanjose.carin@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/juanjosecarin | juanjocarin.github.io
Professional Profile
Passionate abo ut data analysis and experiments, mainly focused on user behavior, experience , and engagement , with a solid
background in data science and statistics, and extensive experience using data insights to drive business growth.
Education
2016 University of California, Berkeley Master of Information and Data Science GPA: 3.93
Relevant courses :
- Machine Learning
- Machine Learning at Scale
- Storing and Retrieving Data • Field Experiments
- Applied Regression and Time Series
Analysis
- Exploring and Analyzing Data • Data Visualization and
Communication
- Research Design and Applications for
Data Analysis
2014 Universidad Politécnica de Madrid M.S. in Statistical and Computational Information Processing GPA: 3.69
Relevant courses :
- Data Mining
- Multivariate Analysis
- Time Series • Neural Networks and Statistical
Learning
- Regression and Prediction Methods
- Optimization Techniques • Monte Carlo Techniques
- Numerical Methods in Finance
- Stochastic Models in Finance
- Bayesian Networks
2005 Universidad Politécnica de Madrid M.S. in Telecommunication Engineering GPA: 3.03
Focus Area: Radio communication systems (radar and mobile).
Fellowship: First year at University, due to Honors obtained last year at high school.
Skills
Programming / Statistics Big Data Visual ization Others
Proficient: R, Python , SQL Hadoop , Hive , MrJob Tableau Git, AWS
Intermediate: SPSS , SAS, Matlab Spark , Storm Bash
Basic: EViews , Demetra+ D3.js Gephi , Neo4j , QGIS
Experience
DATA SCIENCE
Jan. 2016 - Mar. 2016 Data Scientist
CONENTO Madrid, Spain (working remotely)
- Designed and implemented the ETL pipeline for a predictive model of traffic on the main roads in
eastern Spain (a project for the Spanish government) .
- Automated scripts in R to extract, transform, clean (incl. anomaly detection), and load into MySQL
data from multiple data sources : road traffic sensors, accidents , road works, weather .
Jun. 2014 - Sep. 2014 Data Scientist
CONENTO Madrid, Spain
- Designed an experiment for Google Spain (conducted in October 2014) to measure the impact of
YouTube ads on the sales of a car manufacturer 's dealer network.
- A matched -pair, cluster -randomized design , which involved selecting the test and control groups
from a sample of 50+ cities in Spain (where geo-targeted ads were possible) based on their sales -
wise similarity over time, using wavelets (and R).
MANAGEM ENT - SALES (Electri cal Eng. )
Feb. 2009 - Aug. 2013 Head of Sales, Spain & Portugal - Test &Measurement dept.
YOKOGAWA Madrid, Spain
- Applied analysis of sales and market trends to decide the direction of the department.
- Led a team of 7 people .
2 of 2 Juan Jose Carin
Data Scientist
Mountain View , CA 94041
650-336-4590 | juanjose.carin@gmail.com
linkedin.com/in/juanjosecarin | juanjocarin.github.io
- Increased revenue by 6.3%, gross profit by 4.2%, and operating income by 146%, and achieved a 30%
ratio of new customers (3x growth), by entering new markets and improvi ng customer service and
training .
SALES (Electri cal Eng. & Telecom. )
Apr. 2008 - Jan. 2009 Sales Engineer - Test & Meas urement dept.
YOKOGAWA Madrid, Spain
- Promoted to head of sales after 5 months leading the sales team.
Sep. 2004 - Mar. 2008 Sales & Application Engineer
AYSCOM Madrid, Spain
- Exceeded sales target every year from 2005 to 2007 (achieved 60% of the target in the first 3 months
of 2008 ).
EDUCATION
Jul. 2002 - Jun. 2004 Tutor of Differential & Integral Calculus, Physics, and Digital Electronic Circuits
ACADEMIA UNIVERSITARIA Madrid, Spain
- Highest -rated professor in student surveys, in 4 of the 6 terms.
- Increased ratio of stud ents passing the course by 25%.
Projects See juanjocarin.github.io for additional information
2016 SmartCam
Capstone Python , OpenCV , TensorFlow , AWS (EC2, S3, DynamoDB )
A scalable cloud -based video monitoring system that features motion detection, face counting, and image recognition.
2015 Implementation of the Shortest Path and PageRank algorithms with the Wikipedia graph dataset
Machine Learning at Scale Hadoop MrJob, Python , AWS EC2, AWS S3
Using a graph dataset of almost half a million nodes.
2015 Forest cover type prediction
Machine Learning Python , Scikit -Learn , Matplotlib
A Kaggle competition : predictions of the predominant kind of tree cover, from strictly cartographic variables such as elevation
and soil type, using random forests, SVMs, kNNs, Naive Bayes, Gradient Descent, GMMs , …
2015 Redefining the job search process
Storing and Retrieving Data Hadoop HDFS , Hive , Spark , Python , AWS EC2, Tableau
A pipeline that combines data from Indeed API and the U.S. Census Bureau to select the best locations for data scientists
based on the number of job postings, housing cost, etc.
2015 A fresh perspective on Citi Bike
Data Visualization and Communication Tableau , SQLite
An interactive website to visualize NYC Citi Bike bicycle sharing service.
2015 Investigating the effect of competition on the ability to solve arithmetic problems
Field Experiments R
A randomized controlled trial in which 300+ participants were assigned to a control group or one of two test groups to
evaluate the effect of competition (being compared to no one or someone better or worse).
2014 Prediction of customer churn for a mobile network carrier
Data Mining SAS
Predictions from a sample of 45,000+ customers, using tree decisions, logistic regression , and neural networks.
2014 Different models of Harmonized Index of Consumer Prices (HICP) in Spain
Time Series SPSS , Demetra+
Forecasts based on exponential smoothing, ARIMA, and transfer function (using petrol price as independent variable) models.