Leon Yiu 515 East Grant St #411 • Minneapolis, MN 55404
(347) 400-4634 • yiuleon1@gmail.com
http://www.linkedin.com/in/leonyiu
Summary
Quantitative developer and senior data scientist with 10+ ye ars of experience in the fina ncial services industry, with
deep exposure to fixed income investment s and capital markets. Proven track record of building end-to-end ML pipelines,
deploying production models in AWS, and leading cross-fu nctional teams to deliver data-driven transformation.
Professional Experience
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 2 / 2 0 2 2 - 7/ 2025
$45B diversified financial services company known for having a robust network of over 100,000 financial advisors
Data Science Manager / Predictive Analytics
- Built a weighted logistic regression machine learning model to identify the financial adviso rs with the highest risk of
leaving to the competition.
- Developed a highly efficient production-q uality ETL pipeline in Python that co mpiled raw proprietary data from SQL
database tables, transformed the data into a time-series da taset, and produced real-time model predictions in under
a quarter of the previous processing time.
- Constructed a Hidden Markov model to help the internal Collections Team quantify the risks associated with
outstanding loans, estimate the settlement value for ea ch loan, and produce cost-benefit analyses for various
scenarios.
- Worked closely with the Data, Operations and AWS Cloud Teams to prepare models for production environment and
collaborated with the Model Risk Management Team to en sure model compliance with regulatory requirements.
IHS Markit Limited 4/2018 - 11/2021
Fixed income capital markets intelligence business of $22B global data and analytics provider
Associate / Research & Analysis - Fixed Income
- Engineered Python algorithms using NLP text extraction and random forest classification model to automate
bondholder identification, reduci ng manual workload by 20%.
- Delivered investor base analytics and market intelligence to corporate Treasury teams, informing capital markets
and restructuring strategy.
- Selected 1 of 7 employees for the company’s Innovation ThinkTank team, driving firmwide automation and data
product initiatives.
Japonica Partners 4/2013 - 1/2018
$1B+ private equity firm that was the larges t private holder of Greek government bonds
Associate / Investment Research
- Worked directly with the CEO and the senior management team to analyze European governments and make key
investments in European sovereign bonds.
- Built financial models, sovereign risk analytics, and portfo lio dashboards supporting inve stment decisions in $5B of
Greek government bonds.
- Led cross-functional team of ten individuals to successfu lly execute $3.8B tender offer for Greek government bonds,
the first-ever third-party tender offer for sovereign bonds.
Anthony FangMiami FL(735) 500 - 6578a.fang@gmail.com
Leon Yiu Page 2
Deutsche Bank Securities 9 / 2 0 1 0 - 9 / 2 0 1 2
U.S. investment grade debt origination and advisory business of global investment bank
Analyst / Debt Capital Markets - Financial Institutions
- Supported multiple teams responsible for executing $50B+ in lead-managed investment grade bond offerings for
insurance and specialt y finance sectors.
- Created capital structure models to analyze the effects of potential debt issuance and liability management
transactions on issuer’s leverage and capital ratios.
- Coordinated bond tender offer pitch wi th coverage, liability management, and debt syndicate teams to insurance
giant AIG and won mandate for the $1.25B transaction.
Freeman & Company 3/2009 - 8/2010
Data analytics consulting firm that specializes in the financial sector
Analyst / Strategy Consulting
- Conducted data-driven strategic analysis to identify growth opportunities for U.S. banks’ capital markets divisions.
- Delivered analytical insights on U.S. banks’ capita l markets businesses, client segmentation, and revenue
optimization strategies.
Education
Dartmouth College 8 / 2 0 0 4 - 6 / 2 0 0 8
Bachelor of Arts in Economics with High Honors Hanover, NH
CFA Institute
Completed CFA Level I
Technical Skills
- Programming: Python (Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-Learn, Statsmod els, Matplotlib, Seaborn, PyTorch), FastAPI
- Data & Analytics : SQL, Excel (advanced functions, pivot tables), AWS (Lambda, EC2, S3)
- Version Control & Visualization : Git, Dash, Tableau, PowerBI
- Tools & Processes: ETL Pipelines, ML Model Lifecycle, Cloud Deployment, Data Governance