Giacomo Mason Data Scientist and Applied Economist Flat 4, Park View Apartments - 5-7 Downs Road- London E5 8QJ Mobile: +44 (0) 747 2014275 - Email: mason.gcm@gmail.com Key Skills • Economist and data scientist with over four years industry experience and six years research record • PhD-level foundations in econometric modelling, causal inference, statistics, and machine learning • Diverse range of practical applications, from survey data to natural language • Data cleaning, analysis, and modelling using multiple programming languages (Python, R, Stata) • Experience communicating technical findings and visualisations to internal and external stakeholders Recent Experience 2022 - pres. Senior Data Scientist Deliveroo - London, UK • Working across two teams: Experimentation and Measurement, Consumer Behaviour Science. • Maintaining and developing experimentation infrastructure. • Focus on customer lifetime value estimation. 2019 - 2022 Data Scientist Data, Technology, and Analytics Unit - Competition and Markets Authority - London, UK • Delivered an automated document ingestion pipeline to enhance document review in competition cases. • Worked on the CMA’s landmark study on Online Platforms and Digital Advertising, overseeing the big-data empirical analysis for the study. Authored the econometric analysis of a large RCT by Google. • Other projects: network modelling of company ownership relationships, network analysis of deceptive online reviews, automated scraping and analysis of social media content. • Technical skills: network analysis; large-scale webscraping; data pipelines; machine/deep learning for NLP; collaborative software development; code review. • Member of the Civil Service Digital, Data, and Technology (DDaT) profession. 2014 - 2019 Research Consultant Institute for Fiscal Studies - London, UK / Oxford Policy Management - Oxford, UK • Evaluation of the Child Development Grant Programme, a clustered RCT in northern Nigeria. • Led the design of the household survey, and the entire data analysis process. • Technical skills: survey programming, data cleaning, causal inference with panel data, visualisation. 2014 - 2019 PhD Researcher, Economics University College London - London, UK • Supervisors: Prof. Orazio Attanasio, Prof. Gabriella Conti. Main projects: Inequality in early-life socio-emotional skills: a cross-cohort comparison; The impacts of a pregnancy lifestyle intervention on maternal outcomes; Estimating health production functions: a control function approach • Technical skills: multivariate and regression analysis; longitudinal data; factor analysis and structural equation models; permutation and bootstrap inference; multiple hypothesis testing. Other Work and Research Experience 2018 Private Tutor - TheProfs - London, UK 2015 - 2018 Postgraduate Teaching Assistant - University College London, Dept. of Economics - London, UK 2013 Health Economics Junior Researcher - International Renal Research Institute (IRRIV) - Vicenza, IT Previously Junior business analyst, research assistant, event photographer
Publications 2021 The Impacts of a Multifaceted Pre-natal Intervention on Human Capital Accumulation in Early Life w. P. Carneiro, L. Kraftman, L. Moore, I. Rasul, M. Scott. American Economic Review 111 (8): 2506-49. 2020 Inequality in Socio-Emotional Skills: A Cross-Cohort Comparison w. O. Attanasio, R. Blundell, G. Conti. Journal of Public Economics, 191 2019 The Developmental Origins of Health Inequality w. G. Conti, S. Poupakis. Oxford Research Encyclopedia of Health Economics (OUP) Education 2013 - 2019 PhD Economics - University College London, Department of Economics Student Academic Representative (StAR) for the 2014/2015 MPhil cohort Organiser of weekly Applied Microeconometrics Reading Group 2010 - 2012 MSc Economics and Finance (cum laude) -- University of Padua, School of Economics and BA Dissertation: Distance From Markets And Consumption Inequality: Evidence From Rural Lagos 2007 - 2010 BSc Economics and Business (cum laude) - University of Padua, School of Economics and BA LLP / Erasmus Programme - Copenhagen Business School, Denmark Intl’ Summer Program in Management - University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI Dissertation: An Essay on Growth and Inequality Volunteering 2017 - pres. Director - Unseen Tours - Walking tours with Londoners affected by homelessness - London, UK • Social enterprise in the tourism sector, organising guided walks of London • Various product and business development tasks Skills Software • R - data cleaning, analysis, visualisation, statistical modelling Advanced • Python - web scraping, machine and deep learning, NLP Advanced • Stata - data cleaning, econometric modelling, visualisation Advanced • Git/GitHub - version control and collaboration Advanced • Unix, SQL, Matlab, Julia Basic Training courses • Center for Microeconomic Methods and Practice (cemmap): Dynamic programming, Survival analysis, Statistical graphing, Applied nonparametric econometrics, Programme evaluation, Econometrics of cross-section and panel data, Discrete choice modelling. • UCL: Adaptive modelling of complex data, Introduction to relational databases/SQL • Online: Python for data science and machine learning (Udemy), Deep Learning for NLP (Stanford), Intro to Deep Learning with PyTorch (Udacity), Social and Economic Networks (Coursera) Certificates ETS GRE - Quantitative Reasoning: 170/170; Verbal Reasoning: 166/170; Analytical Writing: 4.0 ETS TOEFL iBT - Grade 119/120 Language Italian (native), English (professional), German (v basic), Spanish (v basic), Levantine Arabic (v basic) Other • Amateur digital and film photographer, proficient at photo editing (Lightroom / Capture One) • Podcaster at Tiriamo a Campari (in Italian), a current affairs show